#Neha
For my Senior Design project, me and my team are working on creating a social media website or application for pets. The main purpose of this app is to enable foster parents to stay connected with all the animals they have fostered even after they give them back. The idea is to have an account for the pet as opposed to having one for the parent. This way the account can stay the same for the duration of the pet's life. It would only be transferred from owner to owner. This also increases the adoptability of the pet and it allows for potential pet owners to see pictures and videos of pets that are available to foster or adopt. Another feature that we wanted to include in the app is some sort of verification process that would help with breeder transparency to check if they are ethically breeding the animals. Potential pet owners would also be able to trace the family tree of the pets.

My College curriculum has helped me a lot with what I needed to learn to be able to work on this project. For my software engineering team project, I worked on a wishlist website where I was the lead programmer. I coded the website using Python, Flask and Jinja. This gave me the confidence I needed to be able to work on other websites on my co-ops as well. My Intermediate Python class also really helped me with the tools that I still use in my everyday coding. All this experience has helped me gain a good understanding of full-stack web development. 

Also, my co-op experiences have been extremely useful in preparing me for this project. During my time at Cincinnati Childrens, I worked on a full-stack application using .NET, typescript and REACT. This sharpened my skills in web and app development. Also at my co-op at Matson Money, I led the development of the ‘Fillable Forms’ system which in turn helped me get better at database management skills. During this co-op, I also worked in an Agile environment which gave me a better understanding of project timelines and how to plan them accordingly. Both these experiences have helped me improve my technical skills as well as my collaboration skills.

I am very motivated to work on this project because of my personal experience as a foster parent for animals. I often wonder what happens to the pets I foster after they leave my care. If the project that we’re working on can be released, it would help improve transparency in the foster world as well as the breeding world. This would in turn reduce scams and make sure that breeders use ethical practices. Our approach involves designing an easy, user-friendly interface that would help customers navigate the app with ease. We also plan to build a secure database to store user info. Using my experience with React, I plan to build a robust front end. We also plan to build a feature for identifying breeders to ensure that their methods are ethical.

To evaluate my contributions to this project, I will set clear steps and milestones to follow. We plan to follow an agile method of project management for this project but are still undecided on the specifics. For me, success in this project will involve a fully functional app that has an easy-to-navigate UI and also meets all the needs of the users of the Foster Pet app. We will get feedback from users in order to decide if we did a good job with the project. We will also know for sure if we succeeded if the app can improve pet adoption rates and breeder transparency. I'm excited about this project as it is not only a technical challenge but also because it aligns with my passion for animal welfare.