#Reese Rapin’s Individual Capstone Assessment
Our senior design project plan is to make a social media platform designed for pets and their owners. As a foster parent, I often wondered about my fur babies lives after adoption, so our idea is to create a space where a pet's account can seamlessly transfer to their new owner. This way, fostering families can stay connected and follow the pet’s journey. Additionally, the platform would serve as a tool to promote adoptable animals through photos and updates, helping connect them with potential adopters. For breeders, we plan to incorporate a verification process involving ID checks and multiple pet photos to prevent scams. We also aim to include a family tree feature, allowing users to trace a pet’s lineage, which could help identify ethical breeders and track the pet’s relatives.
	I am currently taking a UI class with Professor Jillian Aurisano which I think will help contribute a lot to the design of the project. It will be a very UI heavy project as it is a social media app so aesthetic is important. I also think the requirements engineering class that I am taking now will help as well for setting up the project. A lot of other classes I took were more cybersecurity related which won’t be as helpful to the project but helped me rule that out as a potential job route as I didn’t enjoy it as much.
All of my previous co-op experiences have been in either embedded development or electrical engineering so this project will be way outside of my comfort zone. One aspect of my co-op that will come in handy is the scrum process. I am very comfortable with breaking up portions of a project into tickets and completing them within a certain time. In all of my experiences I got to work with a variety of languages, so I am very adaptable for learning skills. I hope to maybe pursue something more web development related in the future.
I’m super excited to learn how to potentially do mobile and/or web development – if so it will be my very first project of that type completed. I personally feel like lots of people would benefit from the apps unique features. I am curious how to protect information when it come to the security of verifying users by checking their license. I personally feel like it will be fun to test the app by creating profiles for pets and humans as well since the pets accounts need to transfer but not the human.
I am also very passionate about this project because I have been fostering animals for years. I find it really hard to give up the animals and not know where they will end up afterwards. I brought the idea up to some of the other fosterers I know and they love the concept. I also want to talk to a shelter at some point to see the logistics of how it will all work out. All in all, my team is a group of friends that are very skilled and I think we will do a great job.
